Tutorial split (#145)
pretix/pretix-docs: docs/tutorial/continuous-operation/dates.md

# Dates

An event series contains dates.

> Dates behave similar to individual events, but they are all part of an overarching event series.

Reviewer: > Dates behave similar to individual events, but they are all part of an overarching event series.

Das ist im Tutorial, sprich in einem Szenario, in welchem das geneigte Publikum wenig bis keine Erfahrung hat, wie sich Einzelveranstaltungen so verhalten, ein Satz mit eher wenig Informationsgehalt.

This article explains how to add dates to an event series.

We will navigate to our personal dashboard by clicking :btn-icon:i-pretix: pretix.eu: in the top left corner of the website.

> We will then select our event in the list of "Your upcoming events" and click :btn-icon:fa3-calendar: Dates: in the sidebar.

Reviewer: > We will then select our event in the list of "Your upcoming events" and click :btn-icon:fa3-calendar: Dates: in the sidebar.

"our event" liest sich hier wenig intuitiv, wenn es um eine Veranstaltungsreihe (derzeit noch) ohne Termine geht, die eine ganze Saison abbilden soll.

![Page titled "Dates", displaying buttons for creating a single or multiple new dates. ](../../assets/screens/event-series/dates.png "Dates screenshot" )

There are no dates in our event series yet.
Thus, this page displays the text "You haven't created any dates for this event series yet".
It also displays two buttons: one for creating a single new date, and one for creating many new dates.

## Creating a date for regular opening hours

First, we are going to create a date that represents our regular opening hours for the 2027 season.
In order to do so, we will click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Create a new date: button.

In the "Name" field, we will enter `Regular admission`.
Under "Event start time", we will enter `2027-01-01`, `08:00:00`.
Under "Event end time", we will enter `2027-12-31`, `18:00:00`.

In the first field under "Quotas", we will enter "Regular admission".

> We will leave the "Total capacity" field empty because we do not need to limit the sale of tickets that attendees will use throughout our entire season.

Reviewer: > We will leave the "Total capacity" field empty because we do not need to limit the sale of tickets that attendees will use throughout our entire season.

Erscheint mir im Direktvergleich mit den Führungstickets jetzt nicht ganz logisch. Die allgemeine Besucherzahl unterliegt doch sicher brandschutztechnischen Beschränkungen?

> Under "Products", we will select the two products we want to grant admission to our regular opening hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under "Products", we will select the two products we want to grant admission during our regular opening hours.
```

Those tickets are "Regular admission" and "Discount admission".
We will then click the :btn:Save: button.

!!! Note
    If all dates in an event series have the same name, then the shop's calendar view will not display that name.
    Thus, the setup described in this section results in a calendar view full of nondescript date entries.

>     Once there is at least one other date with a different name, the calendar view will display all date names again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Once there is at least another date with a different name, the calendar view will display all date names again.
```

>     Follow along with the [next section](#creating-dates-for-special-events) and the issue will resolve itself.

Reviewer: >  Follow along with the [next section](#creating-dates-for-special-events) and the issue will resolve itself.

*Is* this an issue for a regular season?

Author: Yes, it's an issue in the sense that the calendar view looks *really weird* until you add a second date.

>     Follow along with the [next section](#creating-dates-for-special-events) and the situation will remedy itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Follow along with the [next section](#creating-dates-for-special-events) and the issue will be resolved.
```
sounds more natural to me.

The "Preview" on the right side of the page is useful for checking whether our repetition rule results targets the right dates.
It will display the first ten and last ten dates we are about to create.

Under "Times", we will click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Add a single time slot: button.
We will choose the start time `10:00:00`, the end time `12:00:00` and the admission time `09:30:00`.

Under "General information", we will enter `Guided tour` as the name for these dates.
We are also going to add a description under "Frontpage text".

Under "Quotas", we are going to enter "Tour tickets".
We will enter a total capacity of "30".
Under "Products", we will select the `Guided tour` product.

Finally, we will click the :btn: Save: button, which takes us back to the dates overview page.

## Conclusion

We have added dates to our event series: a single date for regular admission and many dates for a repeating special event.
We can add further dates as needed during the season.

> For repeating dates, it makes sense to use the "Create many new dates" function.

Reviewer: > For repeating dates, it makes sense to use the "Create many new dates" function.

Dieses Tutorial initial lesend würde ich doch wahrscheinlich davon ausgehen, dass meine regulären Öffnungszeiten sehr viele Termine sind, und dass die sich eben sehr oft wiederholen.
Warum wird das hier anders angelegt?
(Und warum wird das hier mit Blick auf den guide zu Event series anders angelegt?)

Those tickets are "Regular admission" and "Discount admission".
We will then click the :btn:Save: button.

!!! Note
    If all dates in an event series have the same name, then the shop's calendar view will not display that name.
    Thus, the setup described in this section results in a calendar view full of nondescript date entries.
    This situation will remedy itself once you have created another date with a different name.

>     Once you have followed along with the [next section](#creating-dates-for-special-events), the calendar view will display all date names again.

Reviewer 2: Isn't that a duplication? Can't we omit the first sentence?
